hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here with
episode numero siete of the dunk
shellping history podcast it took me
only seven episodes to get through all
268 years of the Ching dynasty when I
did those dynasty overviews and Here I
am 7 episodes and all I have to show for
myself for a little more than seven
decades I'm gonna try and pick up the
pace this time and encourage you if
you're hungry for more details to go out
and buy Azra Vogel's new book dung
shopping and the transformation of China
I want to let everyone know my new
podcast feed is up and running in the
iTunes Store if you haven't done so
already please subscribe to the new
China history podcast feed it's the one
where you'll see all 69 episodes
available you'll recognize the old feed
that starts at episode number 18 I'm
gonna do maybe one more episode after
this one and then that old website that
I made from scratch using iWeb and that
podcast feed both are gonna be shut down
and then everything will be available
from that point on at the new website
China history podcast calm and from the
new iTunes feed and again sorry for all
the hassles let's get going here we're
gonna jump to the year 1980 this is the
official year that the new Doong era
begins specifically it started at the
fifth plenum of the 11th Party Congress
or Central Committee in February 1980 as
I mentioned last time by the middle of
1979 dung had already
unofficially pushed wah wah Fung to the
side this was a very great mismatched
dung with all his smarts political
astuteness his relationships the most
powerful of the most powerful men in
China the whole package he just quietly
steamrolled over walk well Fung to the
extent that by this fifth plenum hua was
no longer unofficially out he was
officially out hua was out in tongues to
chief lieutenants were now in whoo yo
bong later on at the next plenum became
Party Chairman and chiaotzu yang became
premier too
positions that were previously held by
kua who yell bang was put in charge of
the restored party secretariat it was
the job of the secretariat to organize
all the daily work at the Politburo
Standing Committee they were like the
cabinet of the party but the most
powerful position in the party and for
that matter in China as well was
chairman of the CMC Central Military
Commission dung Xiao ping kept this one
for himself by January 1980 dung had
already given his equivalent of his
State of the Union address where he laid
out everything that needed to be done
and more truer words were never spoken
when dung said in this historic speech
in China
well modernization is the core to all
major tasks because it is the essential
condition for solving both our domestic
and external problems everything depends
on our doing our work in our country
well the role we play in international
affairs is determined by the extent of
our economic growth and as we see today
more than three decades after dung made
this speech done shel ping hit the nail
squarely on the head with this remark so
dung began laying down the law and
explaining how things were gonna be from
now on anything that had the smell of
the Cultural Revolution on it was
shunned certain freedoms were allowed
but everything had to be said or written
within the very narrow and limiting
context of the four cardinal principles
that we discussed last time done laid
those out in 1979 dung Xiao ping had
come out and said as long as everything
was within the boundaries of the four
cardinal principles you know we're cool
nobody's gonna come after you say
whatever you want to say the top layer
of leadership was stuffed with dung Xiao
ping men he wasn't gonna be forced to
deal with the high wire act he had to
perform with Chairman Mao breathing down
his neck and constantly being careful
not to offend anyone or any party
principles now that the fifth plenum was
out of the way dung shopping no longer
had any significant obstructions to
slow him down or prevent him from
carrying out his plans and that was it
it all began about now early nineteen
eighty and you can see from today's
China dungs plans to revive industry
agriculture in the military yeah they
work pretty good it's right about now
that all the party officials who had
done well under the Cultural Revolution
sort of got pushed out under the new
dung regime if you were more red than
expert you weren't gonna rise high in
the party the government or the new
economy
done open the door wide to those
officials who were experts and had
something to contribute other than you
know parroting the party line all the
time those party officials big and small
who had either a proven track record a
high degree of education or practical
experience had a place in the world that
dung Xiao ping was trying to create and
there were a lot of these guys I know I
keep rattling off the same old names in
these podcasts but there were many many
more so many good and decent party
officials who were you know sort of in
the mold of Tung and that they did their
work diligently without fanfare and
achieved results these guys had to lay
low during the ten years of chaos as
Cultural Revolution was now being
referred to but now they were all coming
back and dung was hand picking these
guys and reading through dossiers and
playing a hands-on role assembling his
team and this is one of the reasons he
was able to light that rocket in the
1980s and 90s he picked the dream team
of leaders who picked good party cadres
and with all the hardware in place all
Doong had to do now was load the
software now a lot of what happened once
reform and opening-up to the outside
world kicked into gear was made up as
they went along but the game plan was
set in stone at the fifth plenum the who
yell bang Chelsea on team was put in
place
Leo xiaochi who had been dead for 11
years his verdict was reversed and with
that a terrible wrong was righted it
also signaled that Mao Zedong's day of
reckoning was coming but most of all it
consolidated Dung's power at the top all
the wah remnants and
undesirables left over from the Cultural
Revolution we're all for the most power
out this allowed everyone to sort of
loosen up a little relaxed and not be so
uptight about the job they have to do
seems sort of natural to you and me but
after what these Chinese leaders and
cadres just gone through was there was a
whole new feeling the 1980s were sure
starting to look like was gonna be a one
good decade you know I haven't mentioned
this yet but for quite some time now
Dung's herring had been going he was
going deaf so he really didn't bother
going to too many meetings anymore
I mean what was the you see he couldn't
hear what anyone was saying that's how
bad it was he worked out of his home
about ten minutes from jong-nam high his
proxy was none other than Wong raylene
who had served as sort of a right-hand
man for many years going back to 1952
and when Dunn was down so was Wong
raylene now he was back and although I
guess you'd probably never heard of him
but Wong raylene for all these amazing
years in the 80s he was dumb shell pings
eyes and ears surely got to see a lot in
his position as you know Dung's office
director I found this quite interesting
in Ezra Vogel's book details how done
Shou paying basically did his thing you
know what was his daily routine he would
eat breakfast at 8:00 in the morning and
hung out probably withdrawal in his wife
and then at 9:00 he went to his home
office Dwalin ever the soul mate and
life partner of her husband and Xiao
Peng she was there with Wong raylene and
they both you know arranged his papers
documents newspapers reports done read
15 newspapers you know all China papers
mind you and he was given a daily
briefing with translations of key
articles from the foreign press most of
the day was consumed with perusing a
whole slew of party documents from all
levels of the party that had somehow
managed to rise up to his supreme level
all documents had to be in his hands by
10:00 a.m. the latest and at the end of
the
I done handed all the documents with his
comments or approvals and handed this
back to Jolene and Whangarei Lane and
they were like like the mailroom they
made sure everything got where it had to
go
he kept no notes and kept no party
documents lying about his house the
Emperor is a China they pretty much
operated the same way you know using the
same principle worked well certainly
worked well for dung Xiao ping he met
Chinese officials often at his home but
all foreigners would you know he would
see them generally in one of the rooms
at the Great Hall of the people of
tiananmen square with respect to D
collectivizing agriculture and letting
peasants do what they did best done went
out on a limb early on back in 1979 he
advocated this whole notion of winding
down all these communes and collectives
though he did it without fanfare and as
low-key as possible you know it only
affected about 700 million or so people
so you know he had to be careful
according to Ezra Vogel he said where
there were starving and the most hard up
peasants dung said let those guys do
whatever they need to do to fend for
themselves and get up off their knees
they don't have to follow the rules
anymore whatever works just go for it
was okay to get them off these communes
and let them till their own plots of
land by the mid-1980s this bright idea
had born obvious fruit in terms of
agricultural production increases and
dung being a pragmatist and all he said
if it worked in these cases it's
probably a good idea so let anyone else
who wants to do it grab a hole and a
plow and farm their own land the story
about how Dunn's policies transformed
agriculture in China in the 1980s and
90s is a rich one and as for the city
folk dung went out on a limb for them
too during the Cultural Revolution a lot
of city dwellers got sent down to the
countryside to do a little labor some
loam and learn from the peasants
now that the whole unpleasantness of the
Cultural Revolution was Oh
they were flowing back to the cities and
droves
so dung again being a practical man said
even though this is pure capitalism if
some households want to form a small
enterprise and go ahead it's okay and
they were you know there was some
loophole in Das Kapital or something
where Marx said you know as long as you
have less than eight employees you know
nobody could call you a capitalist so
all these businesses they just opened up
overnight one minute they weren't there
and then all the sudden everywhere and
these peoples were known as the gutty
who this was dung at his best and pretty
soon nobody cared about the under 8
employee rule dung hadn't yet said to
get rich is glorious yet but I think
that that built-in entrepreneurial
spirit that's encoded in the DNA of
Chinese the world over was sort of
activated like turning on a switch so
all these small businesses that sprung
up around this time they were a real
phenomenon in the 1980s and contributed
nicely to the growth of the local
economies and for providing necessary
goods and services another thing let's
give credit where credit is due
who knows where the idea originated back
in November 1977 Dunn was in Guangdong
province on party business and the whole
discussion began about you know spiffing
up the area near Hong Kong and building
an economy there that could provide jobs
and a lifestyle for everyone and make it
so that this endless stream of Chinese
braving death or detention across that
hideous polluted river that forms the
twenty mile border with Hong Kong knows
they'd stopped doing that so so many
illegals eager to escape the drudgery
and seeming hopelessness of life in
China would risk everything to get out
and try their luck in Hong Kong
don't knew then in 1977 something
special needed to be done
regarding southern Guangdong to take
advantage of having the full financial
and economic might of Hong Kong on the
doorstep
dumb new Hongkong was going to be the
key to driving the prosperity of
southern China a lot of thought was put
into what was the best way to take
advantage of this blessing they had so
all the experimentation began and as
many of you are no doubt aware dung
started first in the two most
international provinces going back to
the beginning of Chinese recorded
history and they of course were
Guangdong and Fujian province and so it
began the early 1980s the special
economic zones created officially in
August 1979 these areas took off like a
supersonic rocket and in 1978 the man
who spearheaded all this in Guangdong
province was none other than mr. Shi
Jong Shin you may or may not have heard
of him but you'll be hearing a lot about
his son in the coming year for he is
slated to be the next president of China
Xi Jinping the right-hand man of Shi
Chong Shin who helped design and build
the whole special economic zones was
none other than GU mu who we discussed
in last week's episode 6 GU mu was the
resident expert in China most familiar
with the matter of foreign trade and
investment the rationale behind these
special economic zones or touch you as
they became known was simple China
needed to expand economically through
the building of a sound export
manufacturing base but China was so far
behind and so out of touch with the
world economy and it danced production
methods whatnot they had to start from
from less than scratch they had to start
from the position of not even having the
machines technology and techniques and
know-how so these SE z's special
economic zones were set up as a way to
skirt all the regulations and
restrictions involved in foreign trade
they were a shortcut to creating the
environment to attract foreign
investment Western technology you know
know-how and they couldn't just
implement this policy in China just like
that
so dong did what he always did he
experimented first and a small
scale and if it worked then the idea got
folded into China national policy so
everything began in Guangdong and Fujian
frankly speaking these two provinces
were the lucky ones when the gush of
foreign capital and investment that came
pouring in from Hong Kong Taiwan from
the overseas Chinese of Southeast Asia
elsewhere created this sea change in the
towns and cities of the Pearl River
Delta region in southern Guangdong and
in the city of shaman in Fujian in
Guangdong there were three SEC set up
the biggest of course well we all know
this place was Shenzhen then you also
had zhuhai to the west and shun to-- to
the east and just as shenzhen borders
hong kong zhuhai an hour or so away
boarded macau and in Shonto was next
door to the city of ciaochao and it's
the chao Joanie's that Teochew people
who always vied with the Shanghainese
for the traditional top spot as China's
greatest entrepreneurs so you might
recall we featured mr. li kai-shing in
episode 13 one of the all-time great
Chao Chao sons this whole scz thing it
took a lot of guts to do and obviously
we can all see dongs plan worked it
worked beyond everyone's wildest dreams
now it works but that isn't to say there
weren't any problems or dangerous issues
that surfaced I guess the main problem
was that the 1979 1980s it was so close
to the conclusion of the Cultural
Revolution and now suddenly everyone was
involved in actions that might have
gotten yourself killed or struggled
against I'm in a few years before you
may have gotten in trouble but now these
taboo activities were now being
encouraged Guangdong province once they
got the official go ahead start their
engines couldn't have embraced this new
policy with more enthusiasm and you know
how it is these southern Chinese down in
those provinces of Guangdong Guangxi you
nod Fujian historically they were all
so far from the political action up in
the north you know in Xi'an Changjo
Beijing law yung in these ancient
capitals you know the old saying can
call want even the heavens are high and
the Emperor's far away
now the Guangdong officials who were in
charge of this whole thing it's not like
they totally ignored the central
government but man they sure did some
eyebrow raising things they were
constantly being called out on a variety
of things but they're powerful backers
most of all Tung stood behind all these
decisions and you know this really took
guts how else can I describe what
happened next
foreigners Hong Kong people everyone who
was in the manufacturing business the
whole center of the light industrial
manufacturing universe suddenly shifted
to southern Guangdong Province for the
past I don't know how many years
everything in the Chinese economy had
been so carefully planned carried out
statistics duly reported and whatnot but
now suddenly these special economic
zones are invented and there's hardly
even a ramp-up Perry it's like one
minute it wasn't there and now it was
and the whole thing worked how can I say
spectacularly deals were being made
everywhere and once the Guangdong and
Fujian officials got the okay to sign
deals without getting Beijing involved
well you know you can imagine how much
of a help that was the whole instruction
booklet about how Guangdong Province was
gonna be run from now on with these you
know special economic zones and whatnot
was it was so complicated and the taxes
raised so vast and complicated the
central government just threw the book
out and sent to Guangdong from now on
just give us one big massive lump sum
payment in lieu of all these other
smaller taxes and you know we'll be okay
and it's right about now when unfettered
capitalism came to southern China that
you started to get a little pushback
from the conservative wing at the part
now these were all Dung's old comrades
but they were very dead set again
some of these policies and even after
they were instituted these guys these
strict conservative type central
planners every last one of them they
were against this and the most notorious
of all being genuine they were always
trying to take precautions and were
crying foul whenever something seemed to
get out of hand and none would do what
he had to do to placate then bend to
their will when he had to but at the
same time keep the whole experiment
going at full speed
hey Dunn was an expert at this genuine
and his ilk were not gonna be much of a
impediment to dumb I mean after all he'd
been pushing all these kinds of things
going back to the early 60s and had
Chairman Mao to contend with always
watching over his shoulder ready to
pounce and criticize so you know dealing
with the channon's that Wang Chung's
Dudley toons
these guys were nothing compared to
mouths dou Xiao ping had his sights set
on all these overseas Chinese all over
Southeast Asia especially the Hong Kong
Chinese this was going to be one magical
additive to this experiment that Dunn
was certain would ensure its success
fully two-thirds of all direct
investment in China passed through Hong
Kong this was all the way up to 1995 and
I personally got thrown into the fray
when I moved to Hong Kong in 1989 so I
got to see all this stuff up close about
a decade after the whole thing began in
any foreigner who lived in China then it
was familiar with the situation could
tell you nothing was like it I mean
going from cities like Shenzhen
dong-gwon Guangzhou zhuhai all these
places that were you know within the
field of gravity of Hong Kong they were
so bustling fast paced and well you know
booming you can see it everywhere and
then you go to places like Wuhan
Changsha Nanjing and Chung and it was
nothing like this so so quiet seemingly
backward it was like to urban China's
existed one inside the special economic
zones and one outside to different
worlds
it started off slowly but within a few
years of opening it really left everyone
outside
the zones in the dust it was right about
now when a lot of people began to worry
about all the spiritual pollution that
might seep out of Guangdong and affect
the narrow provinces who got into the SE
Z's was carefully controlled and you
couldn't just hop on a train back then
and head south to Shenzhen like I said
done created these se Z's as experiments
only believe me there were lots of
things the central government didn't
like and they were constantly trimming
around the edges to adjust policies you
know according to whatever the situation
was and the Guangdong officials once
they had been Unchained they weren't too
amenable to listening to all these
interfering party officials from Beijing
trying to tone down this and tone down
that tongue helping placed a lot of his
chips on Hong Kong it was the perfect
place situated on the southern border of
China cosmopolitan an advanced economy
financial international trading center
Doong knew this and he really focused a
lot on how Hong Kong could truly be a
locomotive that could drive the success
of the si Z's and bring China to the
next level and that's exactly what
happened when you consider there was
barely ten billion dollars in foreign
trade up until the SCC's were put in
place and now there's like over a
trillion it's like hey not bad these
special economic zones this was one of
done shoppings greatest achievements and
when you say he transformed China this
is one of the ways he did it not
everyone agreed with dong that this was
a good idea and just like the days of
prints going back in the Ching dynasty
not everyone was all hot and happy to
embrace the West and open up so fast and
so boldly Don was the one who put his
whole neck his whole position as a
leader not to mention his legacy on the
line to see this thing through and he
had a guy named Ren Zhong Yi serve as
the general manager so to speak for this
whole experiment in Guangdong everyone
gives thumbs lping credit for all the
amazing things that happen in Guangdong
Province during the 1980s now done
didn't actually micromanage this he
created the political atmosphere that
allowed all this to happen
it was rental me another very highly
regarded party member who actually did
all the dirty work
he was the party secretary from 1980 to
85 and if there was any single here'll
of the early days of the opening up in
Guangdong Ren Zhong Yi was the guy he
died six years ago but the and a lot of
people in China liked his outspoken
views and willingness to re-examine
certain sacred cows of party ideology
now Don Xiao ping was definitely getting
his way but that isn't to say no one was
opposing him there was a lot of
resistance with all this money and
wealth suddenly flooding into these two
lucky provinces Guangdong and Fujian it
was only natural people being people and
all that a huge amount of corruption
would make itself at home in the system
as the Chinese sometimes say you can
trap a fire with paper the scale of the
bribery and the rumors that got out
eventually made their way to Beijing and
the I told you so's came fast and
furious yeah there sure was a lot to
point your finger at that wasn't good
you had a lot of high-profile cases of
everyone taking a piece just like
genuine warned so dung allowed phase one
to complete before he began phase two of
the SCC's in 1984 the greatest
resistance against the SCC's came in the
beginning dung made sure genuine and his
conservative faction and their birdcage
economics were you know given face and
allowed to put the brakes on to some
extent but by 1984 dung saw an opening
and took a grand tour of the South
visiting all the SCC's listening to
reports meeting with officials and more
or less drumming up support for his next
big idea which was to open up 14
additional coastal cities and let these
places operate using many of the same
policies that worked so good in Shenzhen
Zhuhai Shantou and shaman this was when
he
came up with the famous dung ism your
jungler Tulsa the sure way to eat
socialism with Chinese characteristics
he was always the consummate politician
what a line I don't want to dwell too
much on the special economic zones and
the 14 additional coastal cities I think
you get the main point this was the
method dung employed it wasn't perfect
but it worked and after a period of time
and all the kinks were ironed out these
policies were extended further and
further until well till everything's
sort of reached the point that it has
today these great things going on and
the SCC's were all fine and good but
China was still at that time 80% rural
and these no mean peasants hadn't had it
easy since the mid 50s well they're
happy day came in 1980 policies don't
put in place with his deputies one lis
child say young who yell bong leading
the way they brought huge relief to this
segment of the peasantry who first got a
taste of the reforms the collectives
were all wound down slowly and from that
point on it was all done the way it
should have been letting individual
households manage their farms I mean
they've been doing it for 4,000 or more
years he'd figure they wouldn't need any
help from the central government out of
this subject
these policies dung put in place we're
still being used today and then all
these enterprises started spontaneously
springing up in all the villages and
towns of you know the five strongest
provinces Guangdong Fujian chang-jung
Sula Shandong this led to all kinds of
smaller scale local economies no one
thought about it at first but dung saw
that there seemed to be no downside to
this so these TVs as they became known
as township village enterprises they
became policy - and this of course led
to the next natural step which was for
individual enterprises basically the
stock and trade of entrepreneurs so you
can see how everything led to everything
and you could see the built in strength
and
miss of the Chinese you know having
taken a severe beating after the great
leap and the Cultural Revolution dung
shopping puts all these things in place
and uses his preeminence to force these
policies into effect and this created
the necessary environment that allowed
the natural industry and business savvy
of the Chinese themselves to thrive and
make the whole thing work there was a
ton of planning that went into
everything these economic planners came
up with but the truth of the matter was
that everything in these new areas they
were doing was terra incognita but the
truth of the matter was everything they
were doing was terra incognita so they
had to just make it up as they went
along and discard the bad
keep the good keep trying new things and
that's really how things went there were
so many dynamics all happening at the
same time so many ingredients to the
soup the the you know the recent history
of China reaction against old policies
rapid changes going on in the world
economically China's new relationship
with the US and other Western nations in
Hong Kong Macau the ASEAN nations the
whole international network of watch
shell businessmen doing business in
China everything all mixed together of
course it was only natural that all
these anomalies would come up but they
look at China today you know I guess it
worked and while all this was going on
another feather in dong shell things cap
was being hammered out between the
governments of Great Britain and China
over the future of Hong Kong now done
let it be known from the get-go that as
far as what would happen after 1997 when
the lease ran out the decision was
already made and all that had to be
worked out were the details this is one
of the great tales of foreign diplomacy
drama and negotiation now I'll cover the
handover of Hong Kong in a future
podcast but dung was determined to take
back Hong Kong and reverse the
humiliation of the opium war and on
September 26 1984 the joint declaration
was signed which sealed
Hong Kong's fate after 1997 and believe
me plenty of people freaked out and
there were a lot of people who fled Hong
Kong to resign themselves to the worst
case scenario but 14 years after the
handover and 27 years after the signing
of the joint declaration
none of these doomsday scenarios came
even close to happening following the
joint declaration the basic law was
signed five years later on February 21st
1989 so 1980s was really a decade of
achievement for Deng Xiaoping but it
wasn't always a smooth ride everything
was going great for done with all the
opening up and reform economic and
financial figures were amazing but when
1988 rolled around the invincible Deng
Xiaoping at the age of 84 hit a major
rough patch now what triggered this
price controls that's what did are
actually getting rid of price controls
and letting market forces affect which
direction prices go done thought no one
would mind much but the people did and
they let it be known they liked the old
system this is the first time you see
something go awry in a pretty big way
dung had to back down when all is said
and done not his best moment his
prestige was diminished not only in the
government but in the eyes of the people
as well
one of Dung's people child's Ouyang had
to step down as premier that's right
here where we see leepung takeover as
premier of China and so in late 1988
this is the famous hard landing that
China had that everyone keeps talking
about now soft landing hard landing who
knows but late 1988 China hit the ground
hard and inflation caused no small
amount of hardship you know the famous
China patented automatic double-digit
economic growth dropped like a stone 4.1
percent in 1989 and 3.8 percent in 1990
now all along Dunn's nemesis the yin to
his yang had been none other than
genuine Chen was a year younger than
which made him 8485 when all this drama
was going down and this period where
some experiments blew up in dungs face
this was all chun-yin needed to take
over the controls and ratchet things
down to something a lot more
conservative and slow going later on in
1989 June 4th to be exact less than four
months after the basic law was passed
another incident happened in Tiananmen
Square this time the June fourth
incident we're gonna focus in on this
event at another time but suffice to say
on top of all the bad economic news in
China all the high drama in Hong Kong
when June 4th went down
Tung Xiao ping had to have been feeling
the heat never before had the criticism
been so skating and so direct and as far
as all the details go about the personal
attacks against dong and everything he
faced dealing with the hardliners or
genuine people you know the usual cast
of detractors they had all along been a
stone and Dung's boot they finally got
their way and made fast work of who yell
bong and his policies of course we know
Jhansi yang he was never heard from
again since even before the June fourth
incident
these were Dung's two key people and
they both didn't survive politically and
who yell bomb died suddenly in April of
1989 and just as Joanne lies passing led
to the events that happened on April 5th
1976 the same could be said of whoo-yah
bongs death and the events that led up
to and culminated in the June fourth
incident of 1989 1989 brought Jung's
Amin to the fore not many had ever heard
of them before but all the sudden dung
made him paramount leader Dunn was now
in 1989 starting to make the necessary
preparations just in case he might
suddenly pass away which in 85 year old
lifelong chainsmokers was known to
happen the whole second half of as
revivals book deals with all the details
that I've been skimming and even jumping
over
the minutiae is fascinating reading and
if you're interested to get the
nitty-gritty of all the reforms and
politics and details of that amazing
decade in China
Ezra Vogel certainly delivers let's put
the brakes on right here
I feel confident we'll be able to finish
this one off in the next episode all we
have left is the aftermath of 1989 and
then Dung's 1992 southern trip I
remember it like it was yesterday
I was living in Hong Kong with that
marquee event happened we'll look at
that next time look at Dunn's final
years and his legacy and after next
week's episode we'll get back to the
usual routine and try and release some
you know more random episodes one more
time I have the new feed available at
China History podcast.com this feed
leads you to the entirety of the China
history podcast archive this is the new
official feed to the podcast if you're
still using the old one please subscribe
to the new one I'm gonna shut the old
one down sooner or later anywho
Christmas is behind us just have the new
year and then Chinese New Year this is a
very disruptive and always dicey period
in my little manufacturing and export
world everyone over here in the US is
consumed with the holidays and progress
slows and then when things start to
crank up here in the US the Chinese side
is starting to put the brakes on and
prepare for the ten day or so shutdown
and all the festivities of the Spring
Festival holiday period so many things
go wrong starting right about now and
then after Chinese New Year quarter of
the workers won't come back and it'll
cause the usual scramble to find the
skier sir and scare sir Chinese factory
workers I guess this is the last podcast
of 2011 so a happy and healthy new year
- every last one of you is thanks for
listening sorry this one's a little
later than usual you know the holidays
join me next week if you've nothing
better to do for another exciting
episode of the China History
Podcast